docs/backend/metadata.md, before:

# Metadata Domain

The metadata service provides library management, TMDb search, and catalog storage. It is implemented by `MetadataService`, which is both an `IMetadataApi` and an `IHostedService` so it can schedule background scan tasks.

## Dependencies

- [TMDbLib](https://github.com/LordMike/TMDbLib) powers all TMDb queries. The client is configured with `DefaultLanguage = "en"` and runs through the custom throttled HTTP client described in [tmdb-throttling.md](tmdb-throttling.md).
- LiteDB stores libraries, movie metadata, and TV show metadata inside `common.db` under the `DATA_DIRECTORY` root.
- Progress updates stream through `/hub/background-tasks?type=MetadataScanTask`, which replays active scans on connect and pushes `TaskUpdated` payloads.

## Configuration

- `DATA_DIRECTORY` (required): used to resolve library roots and database location (`.db/common.db`).
- `TMDB_API_KEY` (required): bound to `TMDbClient`. The application fails fast during startup when missing.
- `Tmdb` options section: tunes retry and rate-limit behaviour.

## Collections & Indexes

| Collection       | Purpose                               | Key Indexes                             |
| ---------------- | ------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------- |
| `libraries`      | Library definitions                   | `DirectoryPath` (unique), `Title`       |
| `movieMetadata`  | Movies synced from TMDb               | `LibraryId`, `TmdbId` (unique), `Title` |
| `tvShowMetadata` | TV shows with nested seasons/episodes | `LibraryId`, `TmdbId` (unique), `Title` |

Document identifiers are LiteDB `ObjectId` values stored as strings in API responses.

## Core Models

### LibraryInfo

```csharp
public class LibraryInfo
{
    public string? Id { get; set; }
    public LibraryType Type { get; set; }
    public required string DirectoryPath { get; set; }
    public required string Title { get; set; }
    public string? Description { get; set; }
    public DateTime CreatedAt { get; set; }
    public DateTime UpdatedAt { get; set; }
}
```

`LibraryType` distinguishes movie (`1`) and TV show (`2`) collections. Directory paths are relative to `DATA_DIRECTORY`.

### MovieMetadata

```csharp
public class MovieMetadata
{
    public string? Id { get; set; }
    public required int TmdbId { get; set; }
    public required string OriginalTitle { get; set; }
    public required string OriginalLanguage { get; set; }
    public required string Title { get; set; }
    public required string Overview { get; set; }
    public required double VoteAverage { get; set; }
    public required int VoteCount { get; set; }
    public DateTime? ReleaseDate { get; set; }
    public string[] Genres { get; set; } = [];
    public CrewMember[] Crew { get; set; } = [];
    public CastMember[] Cast { get; set; } = [];
    public required string PosterPath { get; set; }
    public required string BackdropPath { get; set; }
    public string? LibraryId { get; set; }
    public string? FilePath { get; set; }
    public DateTime CreatedAt { get; set; }
    public DateTime UpdatedAt { get; set; }
}
```

### TVShowMetadata

```csharp
public class TVShowMetadata
{
    public string? Id { get; set; }
    public required int TmdbId { get; set; }
    public required string OriginalTitle { get; set; }
    public required string OriginalLanguage { get; set; }
    public required string Title { get; set; }
    public required string Overview { get; set; }
    public required double VoteAverage { get; set; }
    public required int VoteCount { get; set; }
    public string[] Genres { get; set; } = [];
    public CrewMember[] Crew { get; set; } = [];
    public CastMember[] Cast { get; set; } = [];
    public Network[] Networks { get; set; } = [];
    public TVSeasonMetadata[] Seasons { get; set; } = [];
    public required string PosterPath { get; set; }
    public required string BackdropPath { get; set; }
    public string? LibraryId { get; set; }
    public DateTime CreatedAt { get; set; }
    public DateTime UpdatedAt { get; set; }
}
```

`TVSeasonMetadata` and `TVEpisodeMetadata` mirror TMDb data and keep optional `FilePath` associations when scans detect on-disk files.

### People & Networks

```csharp
public class CrewMember
{
    public required int TmdbId { get; set; }
    public required string Name { get; set; }
    public required string Job { get; set; }
    public required string Department { get; set; }
    public string? ProfilePath { get; set; }
}

public class CastMember
{
    public required int TmdbId { get; set; }
    public required string Name { get; set; }
    public required string Character { get; set; }
    public required int Order { get; set; }
    public string? ProfilePath { get; set; }
}

public class Network
{
    public required int TmdbId { get; set; }
    public required string Name { get; set; }
    public string? LogoPath { get; set; }
    public string? OriginCountry { get; set; }
}
```

Mapperly projections convert TMDb DTOs into these shapes while ignoring unwanted properties.

## Search Results

`SearchAsync` builds `SearchResult` objects for the UI:

```csharp
public class SearchResult
{
    public required int TmdbId { get; set; }
    public required string Title { get; set; }
    public required string OriginalTitle { get; set; }
    public required string Overview { get; set; }
    public required double VoteAverage { get; set; }
    public required int VoteCount { get; set; }
    public required LibraryType Type { get; set; }
    public string? PosterPath { get; set; }
    public string? BackdropPath { get; set; }
}
```

`LibraryType` is inferred from the TMDb result type so the client can pre-select a compatible library.

## Library & Catalog Operations

See [API.md](../API.md) for endpoint shapes. Service-level behaviour includes:

- Validating IDs loaded from LiteDB and logging misses.
- Maintaining `CreatedAt`/`UpdatedAt` timestamps whenever documents change.
- Enforcing unique TMDb ids across collections (`EnsureIndex`). Duplicate inserts surface as `InvalidOperationException` and return `409 Conflict` to clients.
- `DeleteMovieMetadataAsync` and `DeleteTVShowMetadataAsync` remove documents by LiteDB id without touching on-disk media.

## Add-to-Library Workflow

`AddToLibraryAsync` bridges TMDb and LiteDB:

1. Validate that the target library exists and matches the requested `LibraryType`.
2. Fetch the movie or TV show from TMDb using `TMDbClient` plus additional detail calls (credits, seasons).
3. Project the TMDb payload into the LiteDB model, populating cast, crew, networks, and (for TV) full season structures.
4. Persist the document and return it to the caller.

Example payload:

```json
{
  "type": 1,
  "libraryId": "6623f1fbe6dcab9395080a5c",
  "tmdbId": "550"
}
```

The request accepts `tmdbId` as a string (mirroring TMDb identifiers returned to the UI) and parses it to an integer before inserting into LiteDB.

Failures:

- Invalid library id → `ArgumentException` → `400 Bad Request` with message.
- Type mismatch or existing record → `InvalidOperationException` → `409 Conflict`.

## Image Helpers

`MetadataService` exposes helper methods and extension methods that transform TMDb relative paths into full URLs (poster: `w500`, backdrop: `w1280`). Prefer these helpers to keep URL formatting consistent.

## Background Scans

The `MetadataScanTaskExecutor` is responsible for filesystem scans and TMDb lookups. Details live in [metadata-scanning.md](metadata-scanning.md).

## Security

All metadata operations honour JWT authentication. The background task hub reuses the same bearer tokens (via query string when necessary).

Commit message:

feat: Implement metadata refresh functionality with background task support

docs/backend/metadata.md, after:

# Metadata Domain

The metadata service provides library management, TMDb search, and catalog storage. It is implemented by `MetadataService`, which is both an `IMetadataApi` and an `IHostedService` so it can schedule background scan tasks.

## Dependencies

- [TMDbLib](https://github.com/LordMike/TMDbLib) powers all TMDb queries. The client is configured with `DefaultLanguage = "en"` and runs through the custom throttled HTTP client described in [tmdb-throttling.md](tmdb-throttling.md).
- LiteDB stores libraries, movie metadata, and TV show metadata inside `common.db` under the `DATA_DIRECTORY` root.
- Progress updates stream through `/hub/background-tasks?type=MetadataScanTask`, which replays active scans on connect and pushes `TaskUpdated` payloads.

## Configuration

- `DATA_DIRECTORY` (required): used to resolve library roots and database location (`.db/common.db`).
- `TMDB_API_KEY` (required): bound to `TMDbClient`. The application fails fast during startup when missing.
- `Tmdb` options section: tunes retry and rate-limit behaviour.

## Collections & Indexes

| Collection       | Purpose                               | Key Indexes                             |
| ---------------- | ------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------- |
| `libraries`      | Library definitions                   | `DirectoryPath` (unique), `Title`       |
| `movieMetadata`  | Movies synced from TMDb               | `LibraryId`, `TmdbId` (unique), `Title` |
| `tvShowMetadata` | TV shows with nested seasons/episodes | `LibraryId`, `TmdbId` (unique), `Title` |

Document identifiers are LiteDB `ObjectId` values stored as strings in API responses.

## Core Models

### LibraryInfo

```csharp
public class LibraryInfo
{
    public string? Id { get; set; }
    public LibraryType Type { get; set; }
    public required string DirectoryPath { get; set; }
    public required string Title { get; set; }
    public string? Description { get; set; }
    public DateTime CreatedAt { get; set; }
    public DateTime UpdatedAt { get; set; }
}
```

`LibraryType` distinguishes movie (`1`) and TV show (`2`) collections. Directory paths are relative to `DATA_DIRECTORY`.

### MovieMetadata

```csharp
public class MovieMetadata
{
    public string? Id { get; set; }
    public required int TmdbId { get; set; }
    public required string OriginalTitle { get; set; }
    public required string OriginalLanguage { get; set; }
    public required string Title { get; set; }
    public required string Overview { get; set; }
    public required double VoteAverage { get; set; }
    public required int VoteCount { get; set; }
    public DateTime? ReleaseDate { get; set; }
    public string[] Genres { get; set; } = [];
    public CrewMember[] Crew { get; set; } = [];
    public CastMember[] Cast { get; set; } = [];
    public required string PosterPath { get; set; }
    public required string BackdropPath { get; set; }
    public string? LibraryId { get; set; }
    public string? FilePath { get; set; }
    public DateTime CreatedAt { get; set; }
    public DateTime UpdatedAt { get; set; }
}
```

### TVShowMetadata

```csharp
public class TVShowMetadata
{
    public string? Id { get; set; }
    public required int TmdbId { get; set; }
    public required string OriginalTitle { get; set; }
    public required string OriginalLanguage { get; set; }
    public required string Title { get; set; }
    public required string Overview { get; set; }
    public required double VoteAverage { get; set; }
    public required int VoteCount { get; set; }
    public string[] Genres { get; set; } = [];
    public CrewMember[] Crew { get; set; } = [];
    public CastMember[] Cast { get; set; } = [];
    public Network[] Networks { get; set; } = [];
    public TVSeasonMetadata[] Seasons { get; set; } = [];
    public required string PosterPath { get; set; }
    public required string BackdropPath { get; set; }
    public string? LibraryId { get; set; }
    public DateTime CreatedAt { get; set; }
    public DateTime UpdatedAt { get; set; }
}
```

`TVSeasonMetadata` and `TVEpisodeMetadata` mirror TMDb data and keep optional `FilePath` associations when scans detect on-disk files.

### People & Networks

```csharp
public class CrewMember
{
    public required int TmdbId { get; set; }
    public required string Name { get; set; }
    public required string Job { get; set; }
    public required string Department { get; set; }
    public string? ProfilePath { get; set; }
}

public class CastMember
{
    public required int TmdbId { get; set; }
    public required string Name { get; set; }
    public required string Character { get; set; }
    public required int Order { get; set; }
    public string? ProfilePath { get; set; }
}

public class Network
{
    public required int TmdbId { get; set; }
    public required string Name { get; set; }
    public string? LogoPath { get; set; }
    public string? OriginCountry { get; set; }
}
```

Mapperly projections convert TMDb DTOs into these shapes while ignoring unwanted properties.

## Search Results

`SearchAsync` builds `SearchResult` objects for the UI:

```csharp
public class SearchResult
{
    public required int TmdbId { get; set; }
    public required string Title { get; set; }
    public required string OriginalTitle { get; set; }
    public required string Overview { get; set; }
    public required double VoteAverage { get; set; }
    public required int VoteCount { get; set; }
    public required LibraryType Type { get; set; }
    public string? PosterPath { get; set; }
    public string? BackdropPath { get; set; }
}
```

`LibraryType` is inferred from the TMDb result type so the client can pre-select a compatible library.

## Library & Catalog Operations

See [API.md](../API.md) for endpoint shapes. Service-level behaviour includes:

- Validating IDs loaded from LiteDB and logging misses.
- Maintaining `CreatedAt`/`UpdatedAt` timestamps whenever documents change.
- Enforcing unique TMDb ids across collections (`EnsureIndex`). Duplicate inserts surface as `InvalidOperationException` and return `409 Conflict` to clients.
- `DeleteMovieMetadataAsync` and `DeleteTVShowMetadataAsync` remove documents by LiteDB id without touching on-disk media.
- `StartRefreshMetadataAsync` enqueues a background task that re-fetches movie and TV metadata from TMDb. The API endpoint `POST /api/metadata/refresh/start` returns the operation id; progress streams through the background task hub with payloads of type `MetadataRefreshOperationInfo`.

## Add-to-Library Workflow

`AddToLibraryAsync` bridges TMDb and LiteDB:

1. Validate that the target library exists and matches the requested `LibraryType`.
2. Fetch the movie or TV show from TMDb using `TMDbClient` plus additional detail calls (credits, seasons).
3. Project the TMDb payload into the LiteDB model, populating cast, crew, networks, and (for TV) full season structures.
4. Persist the document and return it to the caller.

Example payload:

```json
{
  "type": 1,
  "libraryId": "6623f1fbe6dcab9395080a5c",
  "tmdbId": "550"
}
```

The request accepts `tmdbId` as a string (mirroring TMDb identifiers returned to the UI) and parses it to an integer before inserting into LiteDB.

Failures:

- Invalid library id → `ArgumentException` → `400 Bad Request` with message.
- Type mismatch or existing record → `InvalidOperationException` → `409 Conflict`.

## Image Helpers

`MetadataService` exposes helper methods and extension methods that transform TMDb relative paths into full URLs (poster: `w500`, backdrop: `w1280`). Prefer these helpers to keep URL formatting consistent.

## Background Scans

The `MetadataScanTaskExecutor` is responsible for filesystem scans and TMDb lookups. Details live in [metadata-scanning.md](metadata-scanning.md).

## Metadata Refresh

Use `POST /api/metadata/refresh/start` to refresh all stored movie and TV show entries against TMDb without touching the filesystem. The task walks existing LiteDB documents, updates credits, artwork, networks, and season/episode structures, and preserves any file associations captured during scans. Progress updates are available via the background task hub under the `MetadataRefreshTask` type.

## Security

All metadata operations honour JWT authentication. The background task hub reuses the same bearer tokens (via query string when necessary).
