docs/backend/metadata-scanning.md, before:

# Metadata Scanning Pipeline

`MetadataScanTaskExecutor` orchestrates background scans that reconcile on-disk media with LiteDB metadata. The executor is scheduled by `MetadataService.StartScanLibrariesAsync` and runs inside the shared background task infrastructure.

## Triggering a Scan
- Endpoint: `POST /api/metadata/scan/start?refreshExisting=true` (see [API.md](../API.md)).
- Returns an operation id (GUID). This id is echoed by SignalR events and in background task logs.
- `refreshExisting=false` skips TMDb lookups for files that already have metadata records, limiting the scan to new files and missing entries cleanup.

## Workflow Overview
1. Gather all libraries from LiteDB and ensure their directory exists under `DATA_DIRECTORY`.
2. For each library, gather candidate files via `Directory.GetFiles(..., SearchOption.AllDirectories)` using `FileHelper.IsMediaFile` to filter.
3. Track global totals (files, bytes) to drive progress reports.
4. For movie libraries, call `ScanMovieLibraryWithProgressAsync` which:
   - Iterates files, extracts a clean title using regex + heuristics (year, resolution, codecs, release groups, season/episode markers, etc.).
   - Queries TMDb for the best match and fetches full details when found.
   - Updates or inserts `MovieMetadata`, linking the file path and library id.
   - Broadcasts progress increments including files processed, matches found, instantaneous speed, and ETA.
5. For TV libraries, `ScanTVShowLibraryAsync` walks multi-level folder structures, fetches TMDb show, season, and episode details, and links episodes to file paths when available.
6. After processing a library, stale LiteDB records whose files disappeared are removed via `ClearMissingMovieFiles`/`ClearMissingTvShowFiles`.
7. When all libraries finish, the executor marks the operation `Completed` and schedules removal of the in-memory operation record a few seconds later.

## ScanOperationInfo Contract
SignalR broadcasts instances of:
```csharp
public record ScanOperationInfo(
    string Id,
    string LibraryPath,
    string LibraryTitle,
    int TotalFiles,
    int ProcessedFiles,
    int FoundMetadata,
    double Progress,
    ScanOperationState State,
    DateTime StartTime,
    DateTime? CompletedTime = null,
    string? ErrorMessage = null,
    string? CurrentFile = null,
    double? SpeedFilesPerSecond = null,
    double? EstimatedTimeSeconds = null
);
```
Updates use the `ScanOperationUpdated` event; once the executor trims the record, `ScanOperationDeleted` is published with the operation id. There is no REST polling endpoint at present—clients listen to the hub for live updates.

## Rate Limiting & TMDb Usage
- Every TMDb request path goes through the throttled HTTP client (token bucket + retries).
- The executor still applies `Task.Delay(250ms)` between lookups to minimise burst load and support deployments without aggressive throttling configuration.

## Error Handling
- File system issues (missing directories, access denied) log warnings and continue with remaining libraries.
- TMDb errors log at warning level; the executor proceeds to the next candidate.
- Unhandled exceptions mark the scan as `Failed` and broadcast the failure status.
- Cancelling the background task via `TryCancel` (invoked when the host stops) sets the state to `Cancelled` before cleanup.

## Title Extraction Heuristics
The helper removes common noise tokens before searching TMDb:
- Year markers (`.2023.`, `(2019)`, `1999`)
- Resolution and format (`720p`, `1080p`, `2160p`, `UHD`, `4K`)
- Codec qualifiers (`x264`, `x265`, `h264`, `HEVC`)
- Quality tags (`BluRay`, `BDRemux`, `WEBRip`, `DVDRip`)
- Audio tags (`AAC`, `AC3`, `DTS`)
- Language markers (`.rus.`, `.eng.`)
- Release groups (`LostFilm`, `YTS`, etc.)
- Episodic markers (`S01E04`, `1x02`)

## Logging
- `Information`: lifecycle, per-library summary, completion totals.
- `Debug`: file-level processing details and TMDb queries.
- `Warning`: missing paths, TMDb misses, metadata conflicts.
- `Error`: unexpected exceptions before setting state to `Failed`.

## Related Documents
- [Metadata Domain](metadata.md) for storage specifics.
- [TMDb Throttling](tmdb-throttling.md) for retry configuration.

Commit message:

refactor: Rework metadata scanning and background task management
- Removed IHostedService implementation from MetadataService.
- Simplified MetadataService constructor by removing unused dependencies.
- Updated StartScanLibrariesAsync to use new background task manager.
- Removed ScanOperationState enum and related properties from ScanOperationInfo.
- Enhanced LibrariesPage to manage background tasks more effectively.
- Removed ActiveBackgroundTasks component and its usage in Sidebar.
- Updated CopyOperationsList to integrate with new background task structure.
- Refactored useFiles hook to handle copy operations via background tasks.
- Updated useMetadataSignalR to manage metadata scan operations through background tasks.
- Renamed BackgroundTaskState to BackgroundTaskStatus for clarity.
- Updated related types and utility functions to reflect changes in task management.

docs/backend/metadata-scanning.md, after:

# Metadata Scanning Pipeline

`MetadataScanTaskExecutor` orchestrates background scans that reconcile on-disk media with LiteDB metadata. The executor is scheduled by `MetadataService.StartScanLibrariesAsync` and runs inside the shared background task infrastructure.

## Triggering a Scan
- Endpoint: `POST /api/metadata/scan/start?refreshExisting=true` (see [API.md](../API.md)).
- Returns an operation id (GUID). This id is echoed by SignalR events and in background task logs.
- `refreshExisting=false` skips TMDb lookups for files that already have metadata records, limiting the scan to new files and missing entries cleanup.

## Workflow Overview
1. Gather all libraries from LiteDB and ensure their directory exists under `DATA_DIRECTORY`.
2. For each library, gather candidate files via `Directory.GetFiles(..., SearchOption.AllDirectories)` using `FileHelper.IsMediaFile` to filter.
3. Track global totals (files, bytes) to drive progress reports.
4. For movie libraries, call `ScanMovieLibraryWithProgressAsync` which:
   - Iterates files, extracts a clean title using regex + heuristics (year, resolution, codecs, release groups, season/episode markers, etc.).
   - Queries TMDb for the best match and fetches full details when found.
   - Updates or inserts `MovieMetadata`, linking the file path and library id.
   - Broadcasts progress increments including files processed, matches found, instantaneous speed, and ETA.
5. For TV libraries, `ScanTVShowLibraryAsync` walks multi-level folder structures, fetches TMDb show, season, and episode details, and links episodes to file paths when available.
6. After processing a library, stale LiteDB records whose files disappeared are removed via `ClearMissingMovieFiles`/`ClearMissingTvShowFiles`.
7. When all libraries finish, the background task infrastructure transitions the task to `Completed`; operations remain available for auditing until the service restarts.

## ScanOperationInfo Contract
SignalR `TaskUpdated` events carry instances of:
```csharp
public record ScanOperationInfo(
    string Id,
    string LibraryPath,
    string LibraryTitle,
    int TotalFiles,
    int ProcessedFiles,
    int FoundMetadata,
    DateTime StartTime,
    string? CurrentFile = null,
    double? SpeedFilesPerSecond = null,
    double? EstimatedTimeSeconds = null
);
```
Progress, status, and error details are sourced from the associated `BackgroundTaskInfo` messages exposed through `/hub/background-tasks?type=MetadataScanTask`.

## Rate Limiting & TMDb Usage
- Every TMDb request path goes through the throttled HTTP client (token bucket + retries).
- The executor still applies `Task.Delay(250ms)` between lookups to minimise burst load and support deployments without aggressive throttling configuration.

## Error Handling
- File system issues (missing directories, access denied) log warnings and continue with remaining libraries.
- TMDb errors log at warning level; the executor proceeds to the next candidate.
- Unhandled exceptions mark the scan as `Failed` and broadcast the failure status.
- Cancelling the background task via `TryCancel` (invoked when the host stops) sets the state to `Cancelled` before cleanup.

## Title Extraction Heuristics
The helper removes common noise tokens before searching TMDb:
- Year markers (`.2023.`, `(2019)`, `1999`)
- Resolution and format (`720p`, `1080p`, `2160p`, `UHD`, `4K`)
- Codec qualifiers (`x264`, `x265`, `h264`, `HEVC`)
- Quality tags (`BluRay`, `BDRemux`, `WEBRip`, `DVDRip`)
- Audio tags (`AAC`, `AC3`, `DTS`)
- Language markers (`.rus.`, `.eng.`)
- Release groups (`LostFilm`, `YTS`, etc.)
- Episodic markers (`S01E04`, `1x02`)

## Logging
- `Information`: lifecycle, per-library summary, completion totals.
- `Debug`: file-level processing details and TMDb queries.
- `Warning`: missing paths, TMDb misses, metadata conflicts.
- `Error`: unexpected exceptions before setting state to `Failed`.

## Related Documents
- [Metadata Domain](metadata.md) for storage specifics.
- [TMDb Throttling](tmdb-throttling.md) for retry configuration.
