docs/infrastructure/hardware-encoding.md, before:

# Hardware Encoding Support

`MediaEncodingBuilder` wraps FFmpeg invocation and optionally enables hardware acceleration. The builder exposes a single entry point for all hardware types rather than bespoke helper methods.

## Supported Accelerators

- `HardwareAcceleration.NVENC` — NVIDIA GPUs (`-hwaccel cuda`).
- `HardwareAcceleration.QSV` — Intel Quick Sync.
- `HardwareAcceleration.AMF` — AMD cards on Windows (`d3d11va`).
- `HardwareAcceleration.VideoToolbox` — Apple silicon and macOS systems.
- `HardwareAcceleration.VAAPI` — Linux VA-API devices (`/dev/dri/*`).
- `HardwareAcceleration.Auto` — best-effort detection based on the host OS with fallback to software encoding if nothing matches.

## Using the Builder

```csharp
using Haas.Media.Core;

await MediaEncodingBuilder.Create()
    .FromFileInput("input.mp4")
    .ToFileOutput("output.mp4")
    .WithVideoCodec(StreamCodec.H264)
    .WithHardwareAcceleration(HardwareAcceleration.NVENC)
    .EncodeAsync();
```

The overload accepts an optional `device` argument. For NVENC/QSV/AMF this maps to `-hwaccel_device`. For VAAPI it must point at a valid `/dev/dri/*` path.

```csharp
await MediaEncodingBuilder.Create()
    .FromFileInput("input.mp4")
    .ToFileOutput("output.mp4")
    .WithVideoCodec(StreamCodec.HEVC)
    .WithHardwareAcceleration(HardwareAcceleration.VAAPI, "/dev/dri/renderD129")
    .EncodeAsync();
```

### Helper Shortcuts

- `WithVAAPI()` calls `WithHardwareAcceleration(HardwareAcceleration.VAAPI, device)` and auto-detects the device path if omitted via `GetDefaultVAAPIDevice()`.
- `WithAutoHardwareAcceleration()` chooses an encoder based on the running OS (VideoToolbox on macOS, NVENC/QSV/AMF on Windows, VAAPI or NVENC on Linux) and falls back to software if all hardware attempts fail.

### Software Fallback Example

```csharp
try
{
    await MediaEncodingBuilder.Create()
        .FromFileInput("input.mp4")
        .ToFileOutput("output-nvenc.mp4")
        .WithVideoCodec(StreamCodec.H264)
        .WithHardwareAcceleration(HardwareAcceleration.NVENC, device: "0")
        .EncodeAsync();
}
catch (NotSupportedException)
{
    await MediaEncodingBuilder.Create()
        .FromFileInput("input.mp4")
        .ToFileOutput("output-libx264.mp4")
        .WithVideoCodec(StreamCodec.H264)
        .EncodeAsync();
}
```

## FFmpeg Codec Mapping

Hardware selection influences the encoder name passed to FFmpeg:

| Hardware     | Video codec mapping                                                              |
| ------------ | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| NVENC        | `h264_nvenc`, `hevc_nvenc`, `av1_nvenc`                                          |
| QSV          | `h264_qsv`, `hevc_qsv`, `av1_qsv`, `vp9_qsv`, `mpeg2_qsv`                        |
| AMF          | `h264_amf`, `hevc_amf`                                                           |
| VideoToolbox | `h264_videotoolbox`, `hevc_videotoolbox`, `prores_videotoolbox`                  |
| VAAPI        | `h264_vaapi`, `hevc_vaapi`, `vp8_vaapi`, `vp9_vaapi`, `av1_vaapi`, `mpeg2_vaapi` |
| None         | Falls back to software encoders (`libx264`, `libx265`, `libaom-av1`, etc.)       |

Audio streams default to `-c:a copy`. Override behaviour by adding additional FFmpeg arguments if required.

## CRF (Constant Rate Factor) Support

Software encoders and Apple's VideoToolbox support CRF encoding for quality-based encoding instead of bitrate-based encoding. Other hardware accelerators rely on constant-quantizer or global-quality parameters instead of `-crf`. CRF values range from 0 (lossless) to 51 (lowest quality), with typical values between 18-28.

### Using CRF

```csharp
await MediaEncodingBuilder.Create()
    .FromFileInput("input.mp4")
    .ToFileOutput("output.mp4")
    .WithVideoCodec(StreamCodec.H264)
    .WithHardwareAcceleration(HardwareAcceleration.VideoToolbox)
    .WithVideoConstantRateFactor(23) // CRF value
    .EncodeAsync();
```

### CRF Support by Encoder

The builder's `SupportsCrf()` method determines if a specific encoder supports CRF:

| Encoder Type | H.264 | HEVC | AV1 | VP9 | VP8 |
| ------------ | ----- | ---- | --- | --- | --- |
| Software     | ✅    | ✅   | ✅  | ✅  | ✅  |
| NVENC        | ❌    | ❌   | ❌  | ❌  | ❌  |
| QSV          | ❌    | ❌   | ❌  | ❌  | ❌  |
| AMF          | ❌    | ❌   | ❌  | ❌  | ❌  |
| VideoToolbox | ✅    | ✅   | ❌  | ❌  | ❌  |
| VAAPI        | ❌    | ❌   | ❌  | ❌  | ❌  |

### Runtime CRF Detection

The `HardwareAccelerationInfo` class includes `EncoderCrfSupport` dictionary that maps each available encoder to its CRF support status:

```csharp
var hwInfo = await MediaHelper.GetHardwareAccelerationInfoAsync();
foreach (var info in hwInfo)
{
    Console.WriteLine($"{info.HardwareAcceleration}:");
    foreach (var (codec, supportsCrf) in info.EncoderCrfSupport)
    {
        Console.WriteLine($"  {codec}: CRF={supportsCrf}");
    }
}
```

This information is exposed via the `/api/encodings/info` endpoint for frontend consumption.

## VAAPI Device Guardrails

When VAAPI is requested, the builder validates the supplied or auto-detected device path. Missing devices throw `InvalidOperationException`. The search order is `/dev/dri/renderD128`, `renderD129`, `card0`, `card1`.

## Auto Mode Logic

`HardwareAcceleration.Auto` tries platform-specific hardware in order:

- macOS → VideoToolbox
- Windows → NVENC → QSV → AMF
- Linux → VAAPI (with device discovery) → NVENC

If every attempt throws, the builder reuses the software codec mapping and proceeds with CPU encoding.

## Related Resources

- Encoding endpoints are summarised in [API.md](../API.md).
- The encoding background service lives in `EncodingService` (see `src/Haas.Media.Downloader.Api/Encodings`).

Commit message:

feat: Add video resolution support for encoding with options for SD, HD, FHD, and UHD4K

docs/infrastructure/hardware-encoding.md, after:

# Hardware Encoding Support

`MediaEncodingBuilder` wraps FFmpeg invocation and optionally enables hardware acceleration. The builder exposes a single entry point for all hardware types rather than bespoke helper methods.

## Supported Accelerators

- `HardwareAcceleration.NVENC` — NVIDIA GPUs (`-hwaccel cuda`).
- `HardwareAcceleration.QSV` — Intel Quick Sync.
- `HardwareAcceleration.AMF` — AMD cards on Windows (`d3d11va`).
- `HardwareAcceleration.VideoToolbox` — Apple silicon and macOS systems.
- `HardwareAcceleration.VAAPI` — Linux VA-API devices (`/dev/dri/*`).
- `HardwareAcceleration.Auto` — best-effort detection based on the host OS with fallback to software encoding if nothing matches.

## Using the Builder

```csharp
using Haas.Media.Core;

await MediaEncodingBuilder.Create()
    .FromFileInput("input.mp4")
    .ToFileOutput("output.mp4")
    .WithVideoCodec(StreamCodec.H264)
    .WithHardwareAcceleration(HardwareAcceleration.NVENC)
    .EncodeAsync();
```

The overload accepts an optional `device` argument. For NVENC/QSV/AMF this maps to `-hwaccel_device`. For VAAPI it must point at a valid `/dev/dri/*` path.

```csharp
await MediaEncodingBuilder.Create()
    .FromFileInput("input.mp4")
    .ToFileOutput("output.mp4")
    .WithVideoCodec(StreamCodec.HEVC)
    .WithHardwareAcceleration(HardwareAcceleration.VAAPI, "/dev/dri/renderD129")
    .EncodeAsync();
```

### Helper Shortcuts

- `WithVAAPI()` calls `WithHardwareAcceleration(HardwareAcceleration.VAAPI, device)` and auto-detects the device path if omitted via `GetDefaultVAAPIDevice()`.
- `WithAutoHardwareAcceleration()` chooses an encoder based on the running OS (VideoToolbox on macOS, NVENC/QSV/AMF on Windows, VAAPI or NVENC on Linux) and falls back to software if all hardware attempts fail.

### Software Fallback Example

```csharp
try
{
    await MediaEncodingBuilder.Create()
        .FromFileInput("input.mp4")
        .ToFileOutput("output-nvenc.mp4")
        .WithVideoCodec(StreamCodec.H264)
        .WithHardwareAcceleration(HardwareAcceleration.NVENC, device: "0")
        .EncodeAsync();
}
catch (NotSupportedException)
{
    await MediaEncodingBuilder.Create()
        .FromFileInput("input.mp4")
        .ToFileOutput("output-libx264.mp4")
        .WithVideoCodec(StreamCodec.H264)
        .EncodeAsync();
}
```

## FFmpeg Codec Mapping

Hardware selection influences the encoder name passed to FFmpeg:

| Hardware     | Video codec mapping                                                              |
| ------------ | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| NVENC        | `h264_nvenc`, `hevc_nvenc`, `av1_nvenc`                                          |
| QSV          | `h264_qsv`, `hevc_qsv`, `av1_qsv`, `vp9_qsv`, `mpeg2_qsv`                        |
| AMF          | `h264_amf`, `hevc_amf`                                                           |
| VideoToolbox | `h264_videotoolbox`, `hevc_videotoolbox`, `prores_videotoolbox`                  |
| VAAPI        | `h264_vaapi`, `hevc_vaapi`, `vp8_vaapi`, `vp9_vaapi`, `av1_vaapi`, `mpeg2_vaapi` |
| None         | Falls back to software encoders (`libx264`, `libx265`, `libaom-av1`, etc.)       |

Audio streams default to `-c:a copy`. Override behaviour by adding additional FFmpeg arguments if required.

## CRF (Constant Rate Factor) Support

Software encoders and Apple's VideoToolbox support CRF encoding for quality-based encoding instead of bitrate-based encoding. Other hardware accelerators rely on constant-quantizer or global-quality parameters instead of `-crf`. CRF values range from 0 (lossless) to 51 (lowest quality), with typical values between 18-28.

### Using CRF

```csharp
await MediaEncodingBuilder.Create()
    .FromFileInput("input.mp4")
    .ToFileOutput("output.mp4")
    .WithVideoCodec(StreamCodec.H264)
    .WithHardwareAcceleration(HardwareAcceleration.VideoToolbox)
    .WithVideoConstantRateFactor(23) // CRF value
    .EncodeAsync();
```

### CRF Support by Encoder

The builder's `SupportsCrf()` method determines if a specific encoder supports CRF:

| Encoder Type | H.264 | HEVC | AV1 | VP9 | VP8 |
| ------------ | ----- | ---- | --- | --- | --- |
| Software     | ✅    | ✅   | ✅  | ✅  | ✅  |
| NVENC        | ❌    | ❌   | ❌  | ❌  | ❌  |
| QSV          | ❌    | ❌   | ❌  | ❌  | ❌  |
| AMF          | ❌    | ❌   | ❌  | ❌  | ❌  |
| VideoToolbox | ✅    | ✅   | ❌  | ❌  | ❌  |
| VAAPI        | ❌    | ❌   | ❌  | ❌  | ❌  |

### Runtime CRF Detection

The `HardwareAccelerationInfo` class includes `EncoderCrfSupport` dictionary that maps each available encoder to its CRF support status:

```csharp
var hwInfo = await MediaHelper.GetHardwareAccelerationInfoAsync();
foreach (var info in hwInfo)
{
    Console.WriteLine($"{info.HardwareAcceleration}:");
    foreach (var (codec, supportsCrf) in info.EncoderCrfSupport)
    {
        Console.WriteLine($"  {codec}: CRF={supportsCrf}");
    }
}
```

This information is exposed via the `/api/encodings/info` endpoint for frontend consumption.

## Resolution Scaling

Use `WithVideoResolution()` to ask the builder to downscale output video to one of the predefined heights while preserving aspect ratio (and skipping upscale when the source is already smaller). Accepted values are `EncodingResolution.SD` (480p), `EncodingResolution.HD` (720p), `EncodingResolution.FHD` (1080p), and `EncodingResolution.UHD4K` (2160p). Passing `EncodingResolution.Source` or omitting the call keeps the original resolution.

```csharp
await MediaEncodingBuilder.Create()
    .FromFileInput("input.mp4")
    .ToFileOutput("output-720p.mp4")
    .WithVideoCodec(StreamCodec.H264)
    .WithVideoResolution(EncodingResolution.HD)
    .EncodeAsync();
```

## VAAPI Device Guardrails

When VAAPI is requested, the builder validates the supplied or auto-detected device path. Missing devices throw `InvalidOperationException`. The search order is `/dev/dri/renderD128`, `renderD129`, `card0`, `card1`.

## Auto Mode Logic

`HardwareAcceleration.Auto` tries platform-specific hardware in order:

- macOS → VideoToolbox
- Windows → NVENC → QSV → AMF
- Linux → VAAPI (with device discovery) → NVENC

If every attempt throws, the builder reuses the software codec mapping and proceeds with CPU encoding.

## Related Resources

- Encoding endpoints are summarised in [API.md](../API.md).
- The encoding background service lives in `EncodingService` (see `src/Haas.Media.Downloader.Api/Encodings`).
